README.md, before:

# Kindlefodder 

Kindlefodder is a Ruby framework and a collection of recipes for
translating website-bound books and documentation into Kindle ebooks that
are easy to navigate and a pleasure to peruse. Web browsers are good for
scanning information, but Kindles are a lot better when you want to
block out distractions and actually learn something.

The ebooks posted here will in most cases be derived from material published
under a Creative Commons license.  I am grateful to the original authors
for writing such good and useful material. They are welcome to take these
ebooks and recipes, modify them, and distribute them under their own name. 

## You can download these ebooks now

Here are a few Kindle ebooks generated with the Kindlefodder framework.  You
can download them and transfer them to your Kindle via USB.

### Heroku Guide

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/article-sm.gif)

* [Download Heroku Guide for Kindle][heroku-mobi]
* [Heroku Documentation on the Web][heroku-web]

[heroku-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/heroku-guide.2012-01-20.mobi
[heroku-web]:http://devcenter.heroku.com/categories/getting-started

### Thoughbot Playbook

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/thoughtbot-toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/thoughtbot-article-sm.gif)

* [Download Thoughtbot Playbook for Kindle][thoughtbot-mobi]
* [Thoughtbot Playbook on the Web][thoughtbot-web]

[thoughtbot-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/thoughtbot_playbook.2012-01-20.mobi
[thoughtbot-web]:http://playbook.thoughtbot.com/

### Pro Git by Scott Chacon

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/progit-toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/progit-article-sm.gif)

* [Download Pro Git for Kindle][progit-mobi]
* [Pro Git Book on the Web][progit-web]

If you enjoy the Kindlefodder version, I encourage you to buy the [print
version][progit-print] to support the author.  I own the print version.

[progit-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/pro_git.2012-01-21.mobi
[progit-web]:http://progit.org/book/
[progit-print]:http://www.amazon.com/Pro-Git-Chacon/dp/1430218339/ref=tmm_pap_title_0?ie=UTF8&qid=1327266631&sr=1-1

### jQuery Reference

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/jquery-toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/jquery-article-sm.gif)

* [Download jQuery Reference for Kindle][jquery-mobi]
* [jQuery Reference on the Web][jquery-web]

[jquery-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/jquery.2012-01-22.mobi
[jquery-web]:http://docs.jquery.com/Main_Page

### jQuery Fundamentals by Rebecca Murphey et al.

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/murphey-toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/murphey-article-sm.gif)

* [Download jQuery Fundamentations for Kindle][murphey-mobi]
* [jQuery Fundamentations on the Web][murphey-web]

[murphey-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/jquery_fundamentals.2012-01-22.mobi
[murphey-web]:http://jqfundamentals.com/

### Frontend Docs Bundle: Haml/Sass/CoffeeScript/Backbone.js Reference

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/frontend-toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/frontend-article-sm.gif)

* [Download Frontend Docs Bundle for Kindle][frontend-mobi]
* [Haml Documentation on the Web][haml]
* [Sass Documentation on the Web][sass]
* [CoffeeScript Documentation on the Web][coffee]
* [Backbone.js Documentation on the Web][backbone]

[frontend-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/frontend_bundle.2012-01-22.mobi
[haml]:http://haml-lang.com/docs/yardoc/file.HAML_REFERENCE.html
[sass]:http://sass-lang.com/docs/yardoc/file.SASS_REFERENCE.html
[coffee]:http://coffeescript.org/#comparisons
[backbone]:http://documentcloud.github.com/backbone/

### Ruby on Rails Guides

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/docrails_kindle/raw/master/images/screen1-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/docrails_kindle/raw/master/images/screen2-sm.gif)

The code used to generate this ebook is actually the evolutionary ancestor to
the kindlefodder project. That code is available in the
[docrails_kindle][docrails_kindle] project.

* [Download Ruby on Rails Guides for Kindle][railsguides-mobi]
* [Ruby on Rails Guides on the Web][railsguides-web]

[railsguides-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/rails-guide.2012-01-18.mobi
[railsguides-web]:http://guides.rubyonrails.org/
[docrails_kindle]:https://github.com/danchoi/docrails_kindle

### The Art of Unix Programming by Eric Steven Raymond


![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/unix-toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/unix-article-sm.gif)

This one is my personal favorite. 

If you enjoy the Kindlefodder version, I encourage you to buy the [print
version][unix-print] or the official [Kindle version][unix-kindle] as well, to
support the author.  I have both versions.

* [Download The Art of Unix Programming for Kindle][unix-mobi]
* [The Art of Unix Programming on the Web][unix-web]

[unix-print]:http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0131429019/104-5607387-8275944?v=glance
[unix-kindle]:http://www.amazon.com/Art-UNIX-Programming-ebook/dp/B003U2T5BA/ref=tmm_kin_title_0?ie=UTF8&m=AG56TWVU5XWC2
[unix-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/unix.2012-01-22.mobi
[unix-web]:http://www.faqs.org/docs/artu/index.html


* * *

# Writing your own ebook recipes

Read on if you're interested in learning how to contribute recipes for turning
web documentation for other products and services into Kindle ebooks.

If you want to turn web content into an ebook don't have the time or skill to
write the Kindlefodder recipe, you can post an [issue][issues] requesting
help from someone who might be interested in writing that recipe.

Otherwise, my small software shop, Kaja Software LLC, may be willing to do
it for a reasonable fee. Send your inquiry to <info@kajasoftware.com>.


## Requirements

* Ruby 1.9
* ImageMagick (i.e. the `convert` command)
* You must be a fairly good at slicing and dicing HTML with [Nokogiri][nokogiri] 

[nokogiri]:http://nokogiri.org/

Also, download Amazon's [KindleGen 2][kindlegen] tool and put it on your PATH.

[kindlegen]:http://www.amazon.com/gp/feature.html?ie=UTF8&docId=1000234621

## How to write a recipe

Fork this project and git clone your fork. `cd` into the cloned git
directory.

Run `bundle install` to make sure you have the required dependencies
(nokogiri and kindlerb) in the gem path.

Create a recipe file in the `recipes/` directory.

Follow the `recipes/heroku.rb` recipe as a model. The requirements of a recipe
should be fairly simple and straightforward.

Once you finish your recipe, generate the ebook with this command:

    ruby -Ilib recipes/your_new_recipe.rb

If all goes well, you should have a nice Kindle ebook version of the web
documentation you processed.

Now submit a pull request on your fork so I can pull in your recipe.

All recipe contributors will be recognized and thanked heartily on this page.

If you're working on a recipe, you may want post a [Github issue][issues]
saying what you're working on and give it the "recipe in progress"
label. This will help prevent unnecessary duplication of effort.

[issues]:https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/issues
[issues]:https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/issues


## Issues

This project is new and rough around the edges, so please feel welcome to
report issues and contribute to the code. 

## Kindlefeeder

Kindlefodder is based on what I learned making [Kindlefeeder][kf], a
feed aggregation service that bundles your favorite RSS and Atom feeds
-- like [the full content of the front page items of Hacker
News][hnfeed] -- into Kindle ebooks delivered to your Kindle. There are
free and paid versions of this service.

[kf]:http://kindlefeeder.com/
[hnfeed]:http://kindlefeeder.com/feeds/1626

Commit message:

all recipes serve as models

README.md, after:

# Kindlefodder 

Kindlefodder is a Ruby framework and a collection of recipes for
translating website-bound books and documentation into Kindle ebooks that
are easy to navigate and a pleasure to peruse. Web browsers are good for
scanning information, but Kindles are a lot better when you want to
block out distractions and actually learn something.

The ebooks posted here will in most cases be derived from material published
under a Creative Commons license.  I am grateful to the original authors
for writing such good and useful material. They are welcome to take these
ebooks and recipes, modify them, and distribute them under their own name. 

## You can download these ebooks now

Here are a few Kindle ebooks generated with the Kindlefodder framework.  You
can download them and transfer them to your Kindle via USB.

### Heroku Guide

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/article-sm.gif)

* [Download Heroku Guide for Kindle][heroku-mobi]
* [Heroku Documentation on the Web][heroku-web]

[heroku-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/heroku-guide.2012-01-20.mobi
[heroku-web]:http://devcenter.heroku.com/categories/getting-started

### Thoughbot Playbook

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/thoughtbot-toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/thoughtbot-article-sm.gif)

* [Download Thoughtbot Playbook for Kindle][thoughtbot-mobi]
* [Thoughtbot Playbook on the Web][thoughtbot-web]

[thoughtbot-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/thoughtbot_playbook.2012-01-20.mobi
[thoughtbot-web]:http://playbook.thoughtbot.com/

### Pro Git by Scott Chacon

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/progit-toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/progit-article-sm.gif)

* [Download Pro Git for Kindle][progit-mobi]
* [Pro Git Book on the Web][progit-web]

If you enjoy the Kindlefodder version, I encourage you to buy the [print
version][progit-print] to support the author.  I own the print version.

[progit-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/pro_git.2012-01-21.mobi
[progit-web]:http://progit.org/book/
[progit-print]:http://www.amazon.com/Pro-Git-Chacon/dp/1430218339/ref=tmm_pap_title_0?ie=UTF8&qid=1327266631&sr=1-1

### jQuery Reference

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/jquery-toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/jquery-article-sm.gif)

* [Download jQuery Reference for Kindle][jquery-mobi]
* [jQuery Reference on the Web][jquery-web]

[jquery-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/jquery.2012-01-22.mobi
[jquery-web]:http://docs.jquery.com/Main_Page

### jQuery Fundamentals by Rebecca Murphey et al.

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/murphey-toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/murphey-article-sm.gif)

* [Download jQuery Fundamentations for Kindle][murphey-mobi]
* [jQuery Fundamentations on the Web][murphey-web]

[murphey-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/jquery_fundamentals.2012-01-22.mobi
[murphey-web]:http://jqfundamentals.com/

### Frontend Docs Bundle: Haml/Sass/CoffeeScript/Backbone.js Reference

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/frontend-toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/frontend-article-sm.gif)

* [Download Frontend Docs Bundle for Kindle][frontend-mobi]
* [Haml Documentation on the Web][haml]
* [Sass Documentation on the Web][sass]
* [CoffeeScript Documentation on the Web][coffee]
* [Backbone.js Documentation on the Web][backbone]

[frontend-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/frontend_bundle.2012-01-22.mobi
[haml]:http://haml-lang.com/docs/yardoc/file.HAML_REFERENCE.html
[sass]:http://sass-lang.com/docs/yardoc/file.SASS_REFERENCE.html
[coffee]:http://coffeescript.org/#comparisons
[backbone]:http://documentcloud.github.com/backbone/

### Ruby on Rails Guides

![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/docrails_kindle/raw/master/images/screen1-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/docrails_kindle/raw/master/images/screen2-sm.gif)

The code used to generate this ebook is actually the evolutionary ancestor to
the kindlefodder project. That code is available in the
[docrails_kindle][docrails_kindle] project.

* [Download Ruby on Rails Guides for Kindle][railsguides-mobi]
* [Ruby on Rails Guides on the Web][railsguides-web]

[railsguides-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/rails-guide.2012-01-18.mobi
[railsguides-web]:http://guides.rubyonrails.org/
[docrails_kindle]:https://github.com/danchoi/docrails_kindle

### The Art of Unix Programming by Eric Steven Raymond


![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/unix-toc-sm.gif)
![screen](https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/raw/master/screenshots/unix-article-sm.gif)

This one is my personal favorite. 

If you enjoy the Kindlefodder version, I encourage you to buy the [print
version][unix-print] or the official [Kindle version][unix-kindle] as well, to
support the author.  I have both versions.

* [Download The Art of Unix Programming for Kindle][unix-mobi]
* [The Art of Unix Programming on the Web][unix-web]

[unix-print]:http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0131429019/104-5607387-8275944?v=glance
[unix-kindle]:http://www.amazon.com/Art-UNIX-Programming-ebook/dp/B003U2T5BA/ref=tmm_kin_title_0?ie=UTF8&m=AG56TWVU5XWC2
[unix-mobi]:https://github.com/downloads/danchoi/kindlefodder/unix.2012-01-22.mobi
[unix-web]:http://www.faqs.org/docs/artu/index.html


* * *

# Writing your own ebook recipes

Read on if you're interested in learning how to contribute recipes for turning
web documentation for other products and services into Kindle ebooks.

If you want to turn web content into an ebook don't have the time or skill to
write the Kindlefodder recipe, you can post an [issue][issues] requesting
help from someone who might be interested in writing that recipe.

Otherwise, my small software shop, Kaja Software LLC, may be willing to do
it for a reasonable fee. Send your inquiry to <info@kajasoftware.com>.


## Requirements

* Ruby 1.9
* ImageMagick (i.e. the `convert` command)
* You must be a fairly good at slicing and dicing HTML with [Nokogiri][nokogiri] 

[nokogiri]:http://nokogiri.org/

Also, download Amazon's [KindleGen 2][kindlegen] tool and put it on your PATH.

[kindlegen]:http://www.amazon.com/gp/feature.html?ie=UTF8&docId=1000234621

## How to write a recipe

Fork this project and git clone your fork. `cd` into the cloned git
directory.

Run `bundle install` to make sure you have the required dependencies
(nokogiri and kindlerb) in the gem path.

Create a recipe file in the `recipes/` directory.

Follow the existing recipes as models.  The `recipes/heroku.rb` recipe
was the first and is also the most extensively commented. The
requirements of a recipe should be fairly simple and straightforward.
But writing the code to clean up and extract Kindle-friendly content may
be more or less challenging, depending on the source.

Once you finish your recipe, generate the ebook with this command:

    ruby -Ilib recipes/your_new_recipe.rb

If all goes well, you should have a nice Kindle ebook version of the web
documentation you processed.

Now submit a pull request on your fork so I can pull in your recipe.

All recipe contributors will be recognized and thanked heartily on this page.

If you're working on a recipe, you may want post a [Github issue][issues]
saying what you're working on and give it the "recipe in progress"
label. This will help prevent unnecessary duplication of effort.

[issues]:https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/issues
[issues]:https://github.com/danchoi/kindlefodder/issues


## Issues

This project is new and rough around the edges, so please feel welcome to
report issues and contribute to the code. 

## Kindlefeeder

Kindlefodder is based on what I learned making [Kindlefeeder][kf], a
feed aggregation service that bundles your favorite RSS and Atom feeds
-- like [the full content of the front page items of Hacker
News][hnfeed] -- into Kindle ebooks delivered to your Kindle. There are
free and paid versions of this service.

[kf]:http://kindlefeeder.com/
[hnfeed]:http://kindlefeeder.com/feeds/1626
